Starting my first day at Indus Hospital as an intern, I was nervous and lost. I ended up on the wrong floor, forgetting to bring my important documents. <br><br>
I met a sweet girl in the parking lot earlier while I was on my way to the main building. I said hi, she complimented my jacket, and I told her it was my first day. <br><br>
After finally reaching the Communications and Resource Department (CRD), I found a furnished, air-conditioned office and waited for my supervisor to arrive. <br><br>
There was waiting for a little while before the supervisor came in. I learned quickly that I was one intern in a group of five, the remaining consisting of four AS boys from PAF chapter. That was a little disconcerting since I am an O-level student and have spent six years in an all-girls school. But even then, I'm a friendly and confident person, but it was their inside jokes that made me uncomfortable. The fact that when we were on break, despite being in the same conference room, they would turn their chairs towards each other and talk, leaving me completely shut out, so that made me feel like an outsider. Furthermore, most of what they discussed and mainly joked about was indecent stuff thinking I wasn't able to comprehend what they were saying. <br><br>
But I was a woman on a mission, so I continued my quest for gathering more information, trying to talk to more people, and observing the operations of the hospital. But that proved difficult since as interns, we were authorized to visit many places inaccessible to patients, but there were still places that were off-limits. Despite this, I continued my quest for more information, trying to talk to more people and observe the hospital's operations. <br><br>
When I returned from my break, the boys warmed up a little to me when I discovered that I had a few things in common with some of them. One of them had recently learned how to solve a Rubik's cube but was still struggling to solve one we secretly unwrapped from the box of toys we were assigned to list on the inventory list pack in boxes taped and labeled. I taught him how to do since I've been solving a Rubik's cube since eighth grade. Then I saw one of them juggling the small toys in a cascade rhythm and told him I could too, so we did a little competition to see who could keep the Rubik's cube in the air longer. Of course, I won by 50 seconds. In the days following, we talked about our subject selections, college choices, side hustles, hobbies, topics like feminism, and LGBTQ, and climate change, and books and novels that we had mutually read. In the end, we all became rather good friends. <br><br>
While waiting for my ride home, I met the girl from the parking lot again but this time she was with the other group of volunteers, and we hit it off, talking and laughing. I learned that the boxes I prepared and the things I ordered were being sold by the volunteers, each tasked with raising up to Rs3000 money to donate to the treatment of cancer children. Although my part in that was negligible, it was heartwarming and inspiring to know that the hours I had spent packing and unpacking were not in vain. <br><br>
The next few days were even better, and I started looking forward to my hours. I attended workshops organized for the volunteers to give them basic training on doing CPR and other emergency skills. At the closing ceremony, the CEO of the network, Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, announced that the volunteers were able to raise 4 lakhs in just one week. While attending the ceremony, I made new friends and talked to some old ones who were eager to go home and bored by the slow proceedings. Despite coming from different parts of the city, we still had a lot to talk about and immediately became good friends. <br><br>
As I continued my internship at Indus Hospital, I began to realize the magnitude of the healthcare crisis in Karachi. The hospital serves a population of over 22 million people, many of whom are living below the poverty line. Patients come from all over the city, and even from other provinces, to receive medical care that they cannot afford elsewhere. <br><br>
During my time at the hospital, I witnessed the dedication and hard work of the doctors, nurses, and staff who are committed to providing quality healthcare to every patient who comes through their doors. Despite the limited resources and overcrowding, they work tirelessly to ensure that every patient receives the care they need. <br><br>
But the reality is that the healthcare system in Karachi is in dire need of reform. There are not enough hospitals or healthcare facilities to serve the growing population, and the ones that do exist are often understaffed, underfunded, and overwhelmed. Patients are forced to wait for hours, or even days, to receive medical attention, and many cannot afford the cost of treatment. <br><br>
The situation is particularly dire for those who are suffering from chronic illnesses like cancer, diabetes, and heart disease. These conditions require ongoing care and treatment, which can be prohibitively expensive for many families. As a result, many patients go without the care they need, leading to unnecessary suffering and even death. <br><br>
This is where the Indus Hospital and its network of clinics come in. They provide free or low-cost medical care to all patients, regardless of their ability to pay. This includes everything from preventative care and vaccinations to specialized treatments and surgeries. <br><br>
As my internship came to an end, I left Indus Hospital with a newfound appreciation for the power of community and the importance of healthcare. I was inspired by the doctors, nurses, and staff who are making a difference in the lives of thousands of patients every day. And I was humbled by the generosity and kindness of the people of Karachi, who continue to support the hospital's mission. <br><br>
But I also left with a sense of urgency. The healthcare crisis in Karachi is not going away, and there is still so much work to be done. It is up to all of us to support the Indus Hospital and other organizations like it, to ensure that everyone in our city has access to the care they need. <br><br>
Overall, my time at Indus Hospital was a mix of nerves, uncertainty, friendship, and inspiration that taught me the value of hard work, compassion, and community. I will always be grateful for the opportunity to work with such a dedicated and inspiring team, and I look forward to continuing to support their mission in any way I can. I was able to observe the healthcare system in Karachi firsthand and see the incredible work that the hospital was doing to provide healthcare to those in need. The statistics are staggering - there is a lack of proper healthcare facilities and medical staff in Karachi, and the need for quality healthcare is immense. <br><br>
